C++11 Relaxing Requirements for Constexpr Functions N3597
================================================================================================================================

  We decided to explore the new C++14 update, implemented on August 18th of 2014.  According to Bjarne Stroustrup, one of the major players in the creation of C++14, “[It] is simply the completion of the work that became C++11.”  The improvements in this update, although seemingly minor, are actually quite important.  While deliberately small, they are the first big step towards making the language as a whole more appealing for novice users.  It patches up some issues encountered with C++11, while making it a cleaner, simpler, and faster language.


  In particular, we focused on approved proposal N3597, selected for inclusion in the release of C++14.  This proposal aimed to relax a number of restrictions on constexpr functions. These changes all received overwhelmingly strong or unopposed support under review of the Evolution Working Group.  This update builds off of C++11, which introduced constexpr functions that were still rather restrictive.  C++11 constexpr functions are executed at compile time to produce a value to be used where a constant expression is required.  However, they could only contain a single expression that is returned.  C++14 will relax these restrictions according to the following four major categories: 1) declaring a variable that is not static or local_thread, 2) the ability to use if (else/ if else) and switch (but no goto), 3) the use of loops (for/ ranged-for, do/ do-while), 4) objects whose lifetime began within the constexpr evaluation can mutate.
